README.md, before:

# todolist

## React

## Redux
`Redux` - is a library that helps managing the application **state**. It implements store which is an object that stores application **state**. It contains also package of methods that allows the `store` handling
>Zasada działania Reduksa jest w miarę prosta: komponent zgłasza chęć zmiany stanu aplikacji, magazyn decyduje, czy wprowadzić tę zmianę, a jeśli ją wprowadzi – informuje o tym wszystkie komponenty, korzystające ze zmienionych danych.

+ Each component can be modified so that it can read application **state** from the `store`. Thanks to that `Column` can display `Card`'s which contains (which are assigned to the `Column`). It will be reendered always when data which are read by this component change.
+ If component wats to change application **state** (e.g add new `Card`) it create and sends an **Action** to the store. An **Action** is just a communicate that says >"I want to implement change in application state, here are the change details".
+ Then the store will take an action and will try to change application state (if we provided a function to handle particular **Action** and the data carried by **Action* are correct)
+ If the `store` changed an application state then all components that uses changed data will be reendered. Thanks to this for example if new `Card` is added it will be displayed in proper `Column`.
>W ten sposób zatoczyliśmy koło, zaczynając i kończąc na komponencie. To trochę tak, jakbyśmy chcieli zawrócić na rondzie – musimy >przejechać dookoła całego ronda. Bardzo ważne jest to, że po tym rondzie jeździmy tylko w jednym kierunku! Komponent sam nie może >bezpośrednio zmienić stanu aplikacji, ani wyświetlić karty, która nie została jeszcze dodana do magazynu.

>Może się to pozornie wydawać ograniczeniem, ale w rzeczywistości pozwoli to na zachowanie porządku i uniknięcie poważnych problemów.

>Oczywiście, to tylko bardzo ogólny opis działania Reduksa – pozwoli nam szybko zacząć używać Reduksa i w praktyce zrozumieć jego >działanie. Dopiero wtedy poruszymy szczegóły każdego z opisanych powyżej etapów jego działania.

****

## Packages instalation
1. `npm install` - install all packages configured in package.json
2. `npm start` - inits "webpack-dev-server --mode development --open --hot", (developer's version of the application)
3. `npm run build - inits "webpack --mode production"` (production version of the application (stable)) - all the styles will be created in `/dist/styles_bundle_main.css`.
4. `npm install --save prop-types` - package that allows to define type of props in each component (class and function component)
5. `npm install --save react-html-parser` - allows to display text instead of HTML code in JSX objects
6. `npm install -D eslint` - ESLint is a tool for identifying and reporting on patterns found in ECMAScript/JavaScript code
7. `npm install -D eslint-plugin-react` - React specific linting rules for ESLint
8. `npm install -D babel-eslint` - babel-eslint allows you to lint ALL valid Babel code with the fantastic ESLint.
+ in `.eslintrc.json` (in main folder of project) add:
```json
        {
        "env": {
            "es6": true,
            "browser": true,
            "node": true
        },
        "parser": "babel-eslint",
        "parserOptions": {
            "ecmaVersion": 6,
            "sourceType": "module",
            "ecmaFeatures": {
                "jsx": true
            }
        },
        "settings": {
            "react": {
            "version": "detect"
            }
        },
        "plugins": [
            "react"
        ],
        "extends": [
            "eslint:recommended",
            "plugin:react/recommended"
        ],
        "rules": {
            "indent": [
            "error",
            2,
            {"SwitchCase": 1}
            ],
            "linebreak-style": [
            "off"
            ],
            "quotes": [
            "error",
            "single",
            {"allowTemplateLiterals": true}
            ],
            "semi": [
            "error",
            "always"
            ],
            "comma-dangle": [
            "error",
            "always-multiline"
            ],
            "no-console": "off"
        }
        }
```
9. `npm install -D lint-staged` - Run linters against staged git files and don't let 💩 slip into your code base!
in `package.json` under `scripts`:
```json
        "husky": {
        "hooks": {
            "pre-commit": "lint-staged"
        }
        },
        "lint-staged": {
        "src/**/*.js": "eslint"
        },
```
10. [React developer tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi) instalation
11. `npm install -S redux@4.0.1 react-redux@7.0.1` - package to run Redux
12. `npm install -D redux-devtools-extension@2.13.8` - package that allows to view `store` content with DevTools
13. [Redux DevTools to see `store` content](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd)

***

## Files used:
`styles_bundle_main.css` - all styles of the application
`dist/scripts_bundle.js` - is a file that joints all JS code of our application which then is converted(translated) by Babel so that it's readable for web browser

`.bablerc` - is a configuration file

`settings.scss`, - contains various or mixins (it musn't contain styles - it can only contain Sass syntax)
`normalize.css`, - unifies styles for different web browsers
`global.scss`, -contains global styles e.g for body or fonts

___
## Definitions
**Props_** - properties of element e.g for hour_picker:
    $ startHour: 12:00;
    $ endHour: 23:00;
    $ step: 0:30;

**State_** - state of the component for hour_picker itt may be currently displated hour.
It can be also just a simple HMTL code and their styles

**Function component_** - simplier components that doesn't contain class e.g:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import styles from './MyComponent.scss';

const MyComponent = () => (
    <div>
        <h3>Hello world!</h3>
    </div>
    );
export default MyComponent;
```

`children` - if props are not defined(if they are not named) we can use prop "children" which will refer to children element of this class instance

___
## Functions definition and explaination
### `addColumn function`:

Below is correct syntax:

```javascript
addColumn(title) {
    this.setState(state => (
      {
        columns: [
          ...state.columns,
          {
            key: state.columns.length ? state.columns[state.columns.length - 1].key + 1 : 0,
            title,
            icon: 'list-alt',
            cards: [],
          },
        ],
      }
    ));
  }
  ```


  Don't use below (it will work well but it's not in line with rules):
```javascript
      addColumn(title){
      this.setState(function(currentState){

        // create new column object with properties
        let newColumn = {
          key: state.columns.length ? state.columns[state.columns.length-1].key+1 : 0,
          title,
          icon: 'list-alt',
          cards: []
        };

        // create copy of current state
        let newState = Array.from(currentState);

        // add new column to new state
        newState.columns.push(newColumn);

        // return new state
        return newState;
      });
```

### `ReactHtmlParser()`:
 ```javascript
<div className={styles.description}>
    {ReactHtmlParser(this.props.description)}  {/* it gets properties that are unpacked in App.js from {...listData}. There is no need to import these props again here */}
</div>
```

### `map() method`:

Below is correct syntax:
`map()` method returns converted elements of array `this.state.columns` - it creates an instance of `Column` class by using JSX (it assigns proper props from initial array `this.state.columns` to the key and `columnProps` arguments
```javascript
{this.state.columns.map(({ key, ...columnProps }) => (                  >// the "map()" method returns an array with changed content
    <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />                                 >// it's mandatory to declare the "key" in JSX for objects/arrays
    ))}
```

Don't use below (it will work well but it's not in line with rules):
```javascript
function(singleColumn){
    const key = singleColumn.key;

    const columnProps = {};

    for(let propName in singleColumn){
        if(propName != 'key'){
            columnProps[propName] = singleColumn[propName];
        }
    }

    return <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />
    }
```

    or:
```javascript
    function(singleColumn){
        key, ...columnProps} = singleColumn;

        return <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />
}
```

>Ten zapis oszczędził nam sporo miejsca! Ale skoro tylko raz używamy argumentu singleColumn, to możemy w ogóle go nie nazywać, tylko >od razu w deklaracji argumentów użyć wyrażenia `{key, ...columnProps}`.
```javascript
function({key, ...columnProps}){
    return <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />
}
```

Commit message:

13.3 add store.js and update dataStore.js with initialStoreData

README.md, after:

# todolist

## React

## Redux
`Redux` - is a library that helps managing the application **state**. It implements store which is an object that stores application **state**. It contains also package of methods that allows the `store` handling
>Zasada działania Reduksa jest w miarę prosta: komponent zgłasza chęć zmiany stanu aplikacji, magazyn decyduje, czy wprowadzić tę zmianę, a jeśli ją wprowadzi – informuje o tym wszystkie komponenty, korzystające ze zmienionych danych.

+ Each component can be modified so that it can read application **state** from the `store`. Thanks to that `Column` can display `Card`'s which contains (which are assigned to the `Column`). It will be reendered always when data which are read by this component change.
+ If component wats to change application **state** (e.g add new `Card`) it create and sends an **Action** to the store. An **Action** is just a communicate that says >"I want to implement change in application state, here are the change details".
+ Then the store will take an action and will try to change application state (if we provided a function to handle particular **Action** and the data carried by **Action* are correct)
+ If the `store` changed an application state then all components that uses changed data will be reendered. Thanks to this for example if new `Card` is added it will be displayed in proper `Column`.
>W ten sposób zatoczyliśmy koło, zaczynając i kończąc na komponencie. To trochę tak, jakbyśmy chcieli zawrócić na rondzie – musimy >przejechać dookoła całego ronda. Bardzo ważne jest to, że po tym rondzie jeździmy tylko w jednym kierunku! Komponent sam nie może >bezpośrednio zmienić stanu aplikacji, ani wyświetlić karty, która nie została jeszcze dodana do magazynu.

>Może się to pozornie wydawać ograniczeniem, ale w rzeczywistości pozwoli to na zachowanie porządku i uniknięcie poważnych problemów.

>Oczywiście, to tylko bardzo ogólny opis działania Reduksa – pozwoli nam szybko zacząć używać Reduksa i w praktyce zrozumieć jego >działanie. Dopiero wtedy poruszymy szczegóły każdego z opisanych powyżej etapów jego działania.

****

## Packages instalation
1. `npm install` - install all packages configured in package.json
2. `npm start` - inits "webpack-dev-server --mode development --open --hot", (developer's version of the application)
3. `npm run build - inits "webpack --mode production"` (production version of the application (stable)) - all the styles will be created in `/dist/styles_bundle_main.css`.
4. `npm install --save prop-types` - package that allows to define type of props in each component (class and function component)
5. `npm install --save react-html-parser` - allows to display text instead of HTML code in JSX objects
6. `npm install -D eslint` - ESLint is a tool for identifying and reporting on patterns found in ECMAScript/JavaScript code
7. `npm install -D eslint-plugin-react` - React specific linting rules for ESLint
8. `npm install -D babel-eslint` - babel-eslint allows you to lint ALL valid Babel code with the fantastic ESLint.
+ in `.eslintrc.json` (in main folder of project) add:
```json
        {
        "env": {
            "es6": true,
            "browser": true,
            "node": true
        },
        "parser": "babel-eslint",
        "parserOptions": {
            "ecmaVersion": 6,
            "sourceType": "module",
            "ecmaFeatures": {
                "jsx": true
            }
        },
        "settings": {
            "react": {
            "version": "detect"
            }
        },
        "plugins": [
            "react"
        ],
        "extends": [
            "eslint:recommended",
            "plugin:react/recommended"
        ],
        "rules": {
            "indent": [
            "error",
            2,
            {"SwitchCase": 1}
            ],
            "linebreak-style": [
            "off"
            ],
            "quotes": [
            "error",
            "single",
            {"allowTemplateLiterals": true}
            ],
            "semi": [
            "error",
            "always"
            ],
            "comma-dangle": [
            "error",
            "always-multiline"
            ],
            "no-console": "off"
        }
        }
```
9. `npm install -D lint-staged` - Run linters against staged git files and don't let 💩 slip into your code base!
in `package.json` under `scripts`:
```json
        "husky": {
        "hooks": {
            "pre-commit": "lint-staged"
        }
        },
        "lint-staged": {
        "src/**/*.js": "eslint"
        },
```
10. [React developer tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi) instalation
11. `npm install -S redux@4.0.1 react-redux@7.0.1` - package to run Redux
12. `npm install -D redux-devtools-extension@2.13.8` - package that allows to view `store` content with DevTools
13. [Redux DevTools to see `store` content](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd)

***

## Files used:
`styles_bundle_main.css` - all styles of the application
`dist/scripts_bundle.js` - is a file that joints all JS code of our application which then is converted(translated) by Babel so that it's readable for web browser

`.bablerc` - is a configuration file

`settings.scss` - contains various or mixins (it musn't contain styles - it can only contain Sass syntax)
`normalize.css` - unifies styles for different web browsers
`global.scss` -contains global styles e.g for body or fonts
`store.js` - keeps application **state**. It imports `initialStoreData` from `src/data/dataStore.js`. In `store.js` there should be stored only content that can be modified during application running.
`initialStoreData` - is a stores application content such as
- titles
- subtitles
- arrays of `List`'s, `Column`'s and `Card`'s

___
## Definitions
**Props_** - properties of element e.g for hour_picker:
    $ startHour: 12:00;
    $ endHour: 23:00;
    $ step: 0:30;

**State_** - state of the component for hour_picker itt may be currently displated hour.
It can be also just a simple HMTL code and their styles

**Function component_** - simplier components that doesn't contain class e.g:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import styles from './MyComponent.scss';

const MyComponent = () => (
    <div>
        <h3>Hello world!</h3>
    </div>
    );
export default MyComponent;
```

`children` - if props are not defined(if they are not named) we can use prop "children" which will refer to children element of this class instance

___
## Functions definition and explaination
### `addColumn function`:

Below is correct syntax:

```javascript
addColumn(title) {
    this.setState(state => (
      {
        columns: [
          ...state.columns,
          {
            key: state.columns.length ? state.columns[state.columns.length - 1].key + 1 : 0,
            title,
            icon: 'list-alt',
            cards: [],
          },
        ],
      }
    ));
  }
  ```


  Don't use below (it will work well but it's not in line with rules):
```javascript
      addColumn(title){
      this.setState(function(currentState){

        // create new column object with properties
        let newColumn = {
          key: state.columns.length ? state.columns[state.columns.length-1].key+1 : 0,
          title,
          icon: 'list-alt',
          cards: []
        };

        // create copy of current state
        let newState = Array.from(currentState);

        // add new column to new state
        newState.columns.push(newColumn);

        // return new state
        return newState;
      });
```

### `ReactHtmlParser()`:
 ```javascript
<div className={styles.description}>
    {ReactHtmlParser(this.props.description)}  {/* it gets properties that are unpacked in App.js from {...listData}. There is no need to import these props again here */}
</div>
```

### `map() method`:

Below is correct syntax:
`map()` method returns converted elements of array `this.state.columns` - it creates an instance of `Column` class by using JSX (it assigns proper props from initial array `this.state.columns` to the key and `columnProps` arguments
```javascript
{this.state.columns.map(({ key, ...columnProps }) => (                  >// the "map()" method returns an array with changed content
    <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />                                 >// it's mandatory to declare the "key" in JSX for objects/arrays
    ))}
```

Don't use below (it will work well but it's not in line with rules):
```javascript
function(singleColumn){
    const key = singleColumn.key;

    const columnProps = {};

    for(let propName in singleColumn){
        if(propName != 'key'){
            columnProps[propName] = singleColumn[propName];
        }
    }

    return <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />
    }
```

    or:
```javascript
    function(singleColumn){
        key, ...columnProps} = singleColumn;

        return <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />
}
```

>Ten zapis oszczędził nam sporo miejsca! Ale skoro tylko raz używamy argumentu singleColumn, to możemy w ogóle go nie nazywać, tylko >od razu w deklaracji argumentów użyć wyrażenia `{key, ...columnProps}`.
```javascript
function({key, ...columnProps}){
    return <Column key={key} {...columnProps} />
}
```
### `{ Provider }`
Makes the Redux store available to the `connect()` calls in the component hierarchy below
